# Welcome to my portfolio

This is the collected result of my relearning of React and subsequent reimplementation of my personal portfolio. This is the portfolio I always knew I was capable of but hadn't yet taken the time to flesh out. Things like state management, props and hooks used to be rather daunting to me, and my first approach to writing a portfolio reflects that. I didn't yet understand how to make use of the core tools that make React such as powerful and dynamic web development platform. I will always keep that old portfolio here on my GitHub as a reminder of how far I've come thus far. 

To anyone viewing this project, please feel free to clone and use as you need, or use any of the content modularly. I feel I've only begun to scratch the surface of what it means to make a clean, properly efficient web application, and am working everyday to expand my skills and knowledge.

Never stop learning, never quit no matter hard it gets, and give yourself the space and time to become a truly great developer! It doesn't happen overnight, it takes many many hours of spinning your wheels, being frustrated and starting over when your design got ahead of your head. 

I appreciate your visit here, I hope you find something valuable within this code, and  don't be a stranger! I am totally open to pull requests and collaboration.


# Some Upgrades From My First Iteration

In this portfolio I decided that a static webpage using classing HTML hash routing is just... totally missing the point of using a modern dynamic JavaScript framework! This time, I decided to focus on creating a truly single page, dynamically rendered web app that doesn't need to use hash routing, because the entirety of the state and content of the app is being updated to the virtual DOM modularly! I've begun making hefty use of state variables, setTimeouts, useEffects and dynamically implemented/destroyed elements to make something that both looks sleek and has well managed context. 

The web page never links to another page, never uses any kind of URL routing, nor does it ever reach outside its one-page context to render the web page. The state is entirely managed in the called components or within the single page itself. This is awesome because it allows me to say "Hmm, instead of having an entire bloated HTML document... why don't I just render these elements dynamically?" I've discovered that this approach is both a lot more utilitarian towards React's dynamic state changes, and also just a lot easier once you actually get the hang of it.

One clearly visible upgrade is a completely different approach to styling, and the general "cool factor" of the app. My previous iteration made very little use of the magic that React brings to web dev, and I instead opted to simply "stick-to-what-you-know." The result was a web app that... could just as easily have been written out in vanilla JS/HTML/CSS! You see, I spent all this time learning the basics of rendering pages in React without ever daring to dig into the minutiae and sometimes glaringly confusing twists and turns it provides in how you want to render your page. For one, I decided to avoid the use of any bloated styling libraries in exchange for sticking to good old CSS for animations and styling. This was a great idea, especially coming from a background where my default solution to styling literally anything was just slapping some Bootstrap modules in there and calling it a day. Sticking to (mostly) vanilla elements and CSS has allowed me not only to more easily control styles, but also use them in sync with state updates and just get more creative with how I manipulate them. 

Some may say this is "reinventing the wheel," but it is my humble opinion that reinventing the wheel is A-OK so long as you're actually getting something out of it and growing as a developer (shoutout ThePrimeagen @ [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/theprimeagen)/[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/theprimeagen) for teaching me this modality). I've also opted to use a custom background (my prior idea was to slap a video loop in as a background and call it a day -_-), I just really like the look of the morphing multi-colored aesthetic and feel its rather striking so I wanted to utilize that aesthetic here. I also opted for a font that actually matches the overall design, and I eventually plan to make changes to some of the text to implement color animations on those as well. 